## Step by step creating a pipeline
1.	Have Jenkins 2.x with pipeline and version control plugins installed
2.	Press “New Item” [top left]
3.	Choose name and the item type “Pipeline”
4.	In the menu furthest down called “pipeline” change the definition to “Pipeline script from SCM”
5.	Paste the url to the repo containing the Jenkinsfile and the path to it from within the repo
---
## Settings for maven use **absolute paths** and need to be corrected after the pipeline name
The project will be built inside a folder in the slave workspace with the foldername set in the jenkins pipeline configuration. That means that if you change name or workspace you'll need to change it in the corresponding settings-file you link to.
---
## Config for the pipeline
For reusability, the script is reliant on parameters from the user. These parameters are to be inputted through configuring jenkins and require the plug in "environment injector". The option "Prepare an environment for the run" then gets available for the user. Variables can then be defined in the textfield "Properties Content".  

example
sourceRepo=https://github.com/ControlSystemStudio //the main repo you wish to fetch from
repoBranch=master //which branch you wish to checkout
buildSpace=css-ce //where you want the project to be built (make sure this path is in union with the xml file for maven)
xmlFile=settings-for-jenkins-ce.xml //
pushArtifact=false //if false then you don't need to worry about anything, if true you need to define [serverID, artifactFolder] as well
email=false // if true then will require [name] as well

---
## Default environments

### CSS-CE
```
sourceRepo=https://github.com/ControlSystemStudio
repoBranch=master
buildSpace=css-ce
xmlFile=settings-for-jenkins-ce.xml
pushArtifact=false
email=false
```

### ess-css-development
```
sourceRepo=https://github.com/ControlSystemStudio
repoBranch=master
buildSpace=cs-studios
xmlFile=settings-for-jenkins.xml
pushArtifact=true
serverID=artifactory-ess
artifactFolder=development
email=false
```

### ess-css-production
```
sourceRepo=https://github.com/ControlSystemStudio
repoBranch=production
buildSpace=cs-studio
xmlFile=settings-for-jenkins.xml
pushArtifact=true
serverID=artifactory-ess
artifactFolder=production
email=false
```
---
## Adding slack integration
1. download slack notification plugin for jenkins
2. go to the slack url <teamname>.slack.com/apps/ and find jenkins integration
3. press "add configuration" for the channel you want to add the integration to
4. copy and add the Team domain, token and channel name for the pipeline script

ex slackSend message: "Build Started", token: 'AKrq2kTrwtrFjepxe6OFC5Lu', channel: "<theChannel>", teamDomain: "teamName"
---

## Jenkinsfile syntax and tips for writing it

[Supported steps (predefined methods) for the jenkins file](https://jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/)

[Syntax reference, includes almost everything needed](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/)

## Useful tips
use triple ' (''') for a literal string

substitution (using $variable) requires explicit string sign ("")

the "steps" are ran on the slave, other is ran on the master

variables declared in the "environment"-block are accessible from the slave as exported variables
---

## Problem description
All jobs are currently created inside the Jenkins portal by clicking and inserting code. Jenkins then generates a xml-file named config.xml specific to each job. The community edition, ess-ics production and development all very similar job-scripts to set up the workspace, download fresh clones, build, and compiling everything. But as the configurations are slightly different it means that there are currently a bunch of duplicated code and manual input. These jobs are hard to modify and to share to others and split up between different folders in horrid autogenerated structures.  

The idea is to collect the scripts that they have in common and automate a pipeline running them. Having all the configurations collected and condensed allows for easy sharing and allows the entire community to contribute and extend the scripts. It also makes it more robust and rigid towards changes as variables are easily set up and changed in the beginning of each file.  

The pipeline will show up as a job in the Jenkins menu. We want setting up the pipeline to have as little configuration as possible inside the Jenkins portal. No magic should happen in Jenkins. To copy the pipeline all you need to do is to link to the repo the jenkinsfile is in and the path to it from the repo-root.

The different jobs for the different versions of css do mainly the same thing baring some initial and final steps. We want to bulk the core jobs together in to one pipeline and encapsulate it inside specific environments and feed them to the core pipeline. Reducing 20+ different files down to only one.

---
